Hi, I'm Lisa Garr, host
of "Gaiam Inspirations."
Did you know that
22% of the healing
of all breast cancer
cases is attributed
to spontaneous remissions?
Did you know that there's
a way to scientifically
validate healing hands using a
specific type of photography?
Did you know that you can
learn to do this yourself?
Well, joining me today
to help us explore
the power of reconnected
healing is internationally
recognized healer, Eric Pearl.
Not only has Eric spoken
by invitation at the United
Nations, he's presented to a
full house at Madison Square
Garden, he's been interviewed
in various publications,
including "The New York Times."
But he experienced an overnight
shift in his healing abilities
he calls Reconnective Healing.
Eric is here to
share this with us.
Thank you so much
for joining me.
Thank you for having
me on the show.
You have contributed so
much to people's healing.
It's a pleasure to have you here
to learn about your life story.
What was life like
as a young child?
Did you know that
you had healing
abilities when you were young?
I don't think I
noticed anything
particularly different,
particularly distinct.
I will tell you, I was born
through a strange process.
My mother died
giving birth to me
and came back to life at a
time where that type of thing
was not discussed, the life
after death experience.
We didn't have Elisabeth
Kubler-Ross or Raymond Moody
or Dannion Brinkley or
any of the other people
who speak about it.
And I believe when I was around
six, give or take a year,
she shared her experience with
me and all of the insights
that she learned
in that process.
You remember that at six.
It was really
quite interesting.
You see, she was--
I'll do this briefly,
but she was on the
delivery table.
And she felt and heard the sound
of motors starting at her feet,
moving up to her
ankles and her knees.
And she couldn't understand
why no one else in the room
seemed to be responding to it.
And it kept climbing
up in her body.
And she knew that if
it got to her heart
that it would be the end.
And she just couldn't get
anyone's attention to stop it.
And the next thing she
knows, it was at her heart
and she had left her body.
And she started
passing through levels
of spirit or being or souls.
The first layer were
people who hadn't realized
that their life was quite over.
They felt incomplete, that they
still more things to do here.
The second layer or level of
people she doesn't recall.
The third one was the only
one that was uncomfortable.
It was uncomfortable to pass
through and uncomfortable
for the people on that level.
And those were the people who
did the only one thing that we
can do to temporarily
interrupt, shall we say,
God's plan, which was they
had taken their own life.
And she did get a
sense that eventually
they would step back into the
system and continue moving.
She eventually found
herself up at a light,
at a level where she
was being drawn down
a lane towards a bright
light, which is what she feels
most people speak
about as a feeling
of moving through a tunnel.
Her feet weren't
moving, but she was
gliding down towards that lane.
She was passing and seeing
colors-- flowers of colors
she had never before
seen, seeing people
from her current
lifetime and recognizing
the roles that we all play
in one another's lifetime.
This is all while
giving birth to you?
Yeah.
They were sort of
guiding the way,
intimating the way to
move towards the light.
She didn't want to look at the
light because it was so bright.
She was afraid that it
would hurt her eyes.
But she felt compelled to look.
And when she did look, she
found that it didn't her eyes
and that there was nothing
physical to hold onto.
And suddenly she was
imbued with insights,
how ridiculous it is for us to
judge others in the way that
they look physically,
why the world is round,
why grass is green,
why the sky is blue,
how we cannot judge even God
for things that are seemingly
unexplainable, such
as drive-by shootings,
how utterly absurd it is for
young men and women to go out
losing their lives fighting
battles for older men
and women and
governments, that war is
a temporary state of barbarism.
You're recounting
this like it was you.
The second chapter of "The
Reconnection," my book,
is a retelling of this story.
And it was the most
difficult chapter to write,
because I had to go
back and forth a lot,
spend a lot of time with my
mother on the phone trying
to find words for things
that she said we don't
really have the words here for.
She understood how
there was a reason
for everything and everything
makes perfect sense when
you're there.
But you're not supposed to
know it when you're here.
Her life was laid
out before her.
She knew it was a good life.
Yet there was no judgment--
a seemingly contradictory
concept, but that's
because we view
everything here linearly in
our four-dimensional existence.
And that's a more
multi-dimensional existence.
And then, the funny thing was,
for such a beautiful place--
and she did say there was one
regret and only one regret
that people who
leave the body have,
that those who are left behind
mourn them because they don't
realize what a
beautiful place it is,
how really it's
all home, and how
really almost instantaneously
we're there together.
And then, suddenly, she felt
herself being sent back.
And for all the struggling
she did not to die, not
to leave in the first place, now
she didn't want to leave there.
But she felt herself
being sent back.
She was told she had
to raise her son.
And she felt all
of the insights she
was given being deprogrammed
from her, shall we say.
They were programmed to leave.
We're not supposed to have
those insights when we're here.
And she struggled hard
to hold onto these,
and some of the ones
she came back with.
And what was interesting-- what
was interesting about this is--
Go ahead.
Have some water.
What was interesting about this
is, when she came out of this,
she no longer had a fear of
death that she had always had.
She no longer had it.
And once she explained it to
me, I no longer had it either.
I look forward to being there.
Now, don't confuse
that with-- I don't
plan to hurry up my life here.
I'm not ready to leave.
I have more things to do.
I'm sticking around for a while,
much to some people's dismay
possibly.
But I look very much forward
to that experience as well.
So, you were raised by a
mother who had insights that
were beyond normal insights.
You were raised by someone who
introduced you to the world
of healing very early on.
She had a larger
spiritual awareness.
Now, remember, the
things that we know,
we don't always get
to be the message.
We can be the messenger
and not always the message.
For example, she learned how
ridiculous it was to judge
people on their appearance.
And she remembers waking
up in the hospital bed,
after giving delivery
to me, looking over
at the next bed and the woman in
it and going, boy, is she ugly.
And then she laughed to
herself, she said, now,
didn't I just learn
not to do that?
Or not to be afraid of
little things such as germs.
And yet at the same
time, she was always
disinfecting and keeping my
milk bottle clear and aware
of the contradictions in it.
I have a message in the
teachings of this healing work.
And I wish I were the message.
I know most people out there
in this and related fields,
many of them live
closer to their message.
Many of them live further
from their message.
No one seems to fully be the
message, and I'm not either.
I disappoint myself from it.
I sometimes berate
myself about it.
I tell myself I won't make
the same mistakes again.
I tell myself I won't be
so hard on myself again.
And yet then I do
the very same things.
A lot of people
say to me, why do
you think you were
chosen to bring
through this level of healing?
And I say, well, I certainly
wouldn't have picked me.
I know my past life.
I know my present life.
I don't have the patience
that healers should have.
Sometimes in the seminars when
someone asks a question I've
answered three or four times,
I'll turn around and I say,
I'll answer this again, but
really, weren't you listening?
And I'll say to myself, I'm
not going to say that again.
And yet I do say it again.
So you're human and
proclaiming to be enlightened.
But you have a-- did
you have any experiences
when you were a
child that you felt
that you were a chosen one?
-No.
I don't gather
that you did, yes.
I didn't.
I had some fun experiences
that in looking back at
them seem a little bit odd.
They didn't seem strong
enough at the time
to signal anything to me.
But for example, my grandfather
just held onto his watches
for some reason.
The watch would break, he'd
take it to the watchmaker.
It would break again,
When the watchmaker
couldn't fix it again,
he just for some reason
couldn't throw it away.
So he had this box of old
watches that were broken.
One day he gave me the watches.
I found that I could
hold the watches,
and they would restart.
Now, this is just the
opposite of most people
who are in a strange
biochemical balance.
Most people either
wear watches fine
or they break watches
by wearing them.
I could restart them.
Would I say that that makes
me some special being?
No, it just happened to be
some freak little event.
I had an interesting situation
happen when I was putting
myself through
chiropractic school--
or when my family was putting
me through chiropractor school
and I was working on the
side as a shoe salesman.
And someone came in
and was buying shoes,
and they happened to work
at the place in Los Angeles
seismology lab,
where they measure
and anticipate for earthquakes.
And one of them said
to me, you know,
we're actually expecting a very
large earthquake on Wednesday.
I said, did you say anything to
anyone else here at the store?
They said, no.
I said, well, do me a favor.
Don't.
And when they left, I said to
a couple of people, you know,
I really think there's going to
be an earthquake-- to be funny.
And there was an earthquake that
came on Wednesday, so everyone
was very excited about it.
And people would ask me again.
And I found that there
were certain things that
would trigger in
my awareness that I
could say I believe
that there'll
be an earthquake on this day.
And it came about.
And it worked really well
for a couple of years,
until someone got
angry at me and said,
stop predicting gloom.
And all of a sudden, I
felt nervous about it,
and I stopped.
I don't think that this
is anyone's special gift.
I think that what happens is we
really tune in to what science
today calls zero point field.
We tune into this
field of awareness.
We're aware of it as kids.
School kids on a bus,
one child falls asleep,
another child stares at
them until they wake up.
We're in the field.
You think about a
friend you haven't
thought about for 15 years.
15 minutes later, the phone
rings, you're in the field.
People who are
psychics, people who
are geniuses, people
who are healers--
it's no special secret.
They're just listening a
little more here, a little more
here, and not second guessing
the information that comes in.
When we judge ourselves,
we second guess.
When we learn to observe without
judgment, we receive more.
We participate more.
We become more at one
with the universe.
And the practice also
helps the more you do that,
the more you become trusting
of the veil being thinner.
So what happened, though?
You had a pinnacle events
that came into your life
as you were in practice
now, as a chiropractor.
You had a full,
thriving practice.
And what happened one day
when a friend of yours
took you to a psychic?
I was introduced to this woman
on the beach reading cards.
She gave me a card reading,
nothing that stood out
in my head as particularly--
-Just a random event.
You just went with a friend.
Uh-huh.
And the woman said
to me, you know,
there's this work that I do,
and you need to have it done.
So I asked her to explain it.
And she said, well, you
see the meridian lines that
are on our bodies used to be
part of a much more powerful
system than they are today.
They would extend
off of our bodies,
tie into the grid lines
that encircle the planet,
encircle the globe,
and then continue out,
tying us into the rest of
the stars and the planets
and the dimensions in between--
and that at a certain point
in time, we, meaning
humanity, had
become disconnected from this.
Some people would attribute
that time to the Garden of Eden.
Different people, different
cultures have different time
frames where they
recognize or feel
that we were all one
with the universe,
and then there became
a human separation.
And as the universe
continues to evolve
at its grand and wondrous
rate, we've been evolving.
And eventually, over
generations, we'll
evolve to a point where we can
rejoin back into that system,
but that she could do work
that would tie us back
into it, sort of like
a giant, super-fast
DSL hook-up, or something.
And I thought, well,
this sounds intriguing.
How much money do you
want for the work.
And she said, $333.
And I said, no, thank you,
because I could think of lots
of things to do with
$333, and giving
them to a stranger on the beach
wasn't on the top of my list.
So I thanked her and
started to leave.
With the globe, with
the crystal ball.
So I thanked her very much
and I started to leave.
And she scribbled something down
on a piece of paper and said,
you can read about
it in a book called
"The Book of Knowledge, the
Keys of Enoch," chapter 317.
The author is Dr. JJ Hurtak.
So I thanked her.
I put the paper in my pocket.
I had no intention of paying
any attention to this again.
But I found I kept thinking
about it and thinking about it
and thinking about it.
So finally I walked into what
used to be called the Bodhi
Tree Bookstore in Los Angeles,
the big spiritual hub bookstore
there, at the time.
And I had an extra 10
minutes off from lunch.
So I took the book
down off the shelf.
They had it locked
away in glass and key.
And I figured I'll skim
through this chapter 317.
It's only eight little pages.
I'll quickly skim through it.
Have you ever seen that book?
-No, I have not.
-OK.
Well, let me tell you
that there are just three
things you cannot do with it.
-Skim?
You cannot quickly
skim through it.
You cannot read it.
And you cannot understand it.
And outside of that,
it's a great book.
The more I read, the
more confused I became.
The more confused,
the more intrigued.
I left the store,
I came back again.
I reread parts.
The parts I understood,
I didn't understand.
Well, you kept being
drawn back to it.
The parts I didn't
understand, I did understand.
Finally, after going back
and forth and back and forth,
I decided maybe it
would just be cheaper
if I paid the woman her $333
and let her do the work.
So I called her up.
She explained it was done
in two different days,
two different sessions.
I showed up on a
Thursday for part one.
She placed me on
a massage table,
dimmed the lights, put on the
new age tinkly music everyone's
grown to know and
love for some reason.
She started with
their fingertips
tracing little line patterns
on my face and my body.
All the while I'm
lying there thinking,
I cannot believe that this
woman is actually doing this
and I paid her money to do it.
So sitting there in
a state of disbelief.
And while lying there,
it suddenly dawned on me
that I'm not going to
gain anything out of going
on with my negative chatter.
So I might as well let
go and see what happens.
So with that, I let
myself drift off.
About another 45
minutes or so passes by.
She touches me gently, waking me
up with the grace and conscious
of someone who feels
that the Earth had moved,
except I seemed to be the
only one of the two of us
who didn't notice.
Get up slowly.
Stay in your body.
Keep your eyes closed.
Take your feet,
feel for the ground.
I'm thinking, isn't
it where I left it?
I don't know what
went on here, lady,
but I clearly missed this point.
I thanked her very much.
I went home thinking there was
nothing more ridiculous I could
possibly have done
except agreed to come
back for part two on Sunday.
I go home that night.
Everything seems normal.
I go to sleep.
About an hour
later, I'm awakened
in the middle of the night
by a very, very bright light.
I opened my eyes
to see what it was,
and it wasn't anything seemingly
attributable to something
spiritual or metaphysical.
It was just the
lamp next to my bed.
It had turned itself on.
Now, I had that
lamp for 10 years.
It hadn't selected
any other propitious
occasion to self-ignite.
But I figured, maybe it was an
electrical short, except shorts
usually turn things off.
And I don't think there's
an electrical long.
But I didn't think about it
that much, because what really
took over my
awareness quite eerily
was that it felt as if
somebody was in my house.
I can't tell you what an
uncomfortable feeling it
is to wake up and
feel that someone's
in your home, when no one
was there an hour or so ago
when you went to sleep.
Oh, yes, yes.
You just freeze.
You're just frozen.
Yeah.
And then you realize
you're not going
to get anything out
of lying there frozen,
waiting to see
what might happen.
Not breathing.
So I got up very bravely
with, get this, a knife,
a can of pepper spray,
and my doberman pincher.
And I went marching
through the house?
You had all three of
those next to your bed?
OK.
At that time, I had
a knife under my bed.
At that time, it
corresponded to when
I had taken a class a
while back, when pepper
spray classes were a big fad.
And yes, I had a
doberman pincher.
So I went hunting
through the house.
I couldn't find anyone.
And after about
20 minutes or so,
I realized that
it was most likely
my imagination, most likely.
I got back into bed.
I went to turn the lamp off.
And you know that little
round button we click
on and click off in lamps?
I'm a clicker, everything's
clicked into place.
Doors are shut,
toothpaste cap is on.
It wasn't clicked on.
It was just rotated halfway.
And I'm thinking, I
know that's not me.
But whatever it is, if they
let me wake up in the morning,
they let me wake up.
I might as well go to sleep or
I'll be a wreck for my patients
the next day.
The next day I go in to
work, it's a normal day.
Saturday's a normal Saturday.
Sunday I come back
in for part two.
Oh, you went back.
Ah.
I paid her $333.
You're getting
your money's worth.
Yes, I am.
So I go back for part two.
She lies me down on the table,
dims the lights, new age tinkly
music again, starts
with the fingers
and drawing the
lines on my body.
But this time it's different.
I can't seem to lie still.
My body is chilled.
It wants to move.
When she finished--
and mind you,
this was an oppressively
hot, hot, hot August
day in Southern California
in a non-air conditioned
one bedroom apartment.
When she finished,
I was so chilled
she had to wrap me in a blanket
for a good five minutes.
I remember leaving and
getting into my car,
I started the ignition,
began the drive.
I experienced a sense of
peace that on one hand
I had never known before,
and on the other hand,
it was more familiar than
anything I'd ever experienced.
I started the drive home, and
I don't remember another thing.
Don't recall a thing.
Don't recall arriving at home.
Don't recall going
to sleep that night.
Don't recall going in
to work the next day.
It was somewhere mid-morning,
my first recollection
is that I was standing in
a hallway in between some
of my chiropractic
adjustment rooms.
Two of my employees are
facing me, asking me
what happened over the weekend,
why I looked so different,
why I sounded so different.
And I didn't want to say,
well, I paid some very charming
Jewish gypsy who called me
bubellah $333 to draw lines
on my body with her fingertips.
Why do you ask?
So I gave a non-response.
I went into the next room.
I worked on the patient.
I told the patient, as always,
to just close their eyes,
relax for a minute or so
before they open their eyes
and got up.
When he opened his eyes, he said
to me, who walked into the room
while I was lying here?
I said, no one.
Why?
He said, no-- like
I didn't hear him.
Who walked into the room?
I said, no one.
He said, I heard them come in.
I said, no one came in.
He said, I heard them
standing at the door.
No one was at the door.
I went back and
forth, back and forth.
Finally, he said OK.
But I could tell he
didn't really believe me.
I didn't give it much thought.
I went in to see
my next patient.
When I finished with
her, she opened her eyes.
She said, who walked into the
room while I was lying there?
I said, no one, why?
She insisted the same story.
-Back and forth?
All in all, seven
patients in this one day
insisted that someone
came into the room,
stood there, walked around,
ran around, two of them
actually looked at me and
said it felt as if flying.
Someone was flying
around the ceiling.
Now, after 12 years in practice,
no one had ever said anything
to me like this before.
So seven people in one day,
you would think that this
would have gotten my attention.
But other patients
are saying, I can feel
your hands before you touch me.
Of course I didn't believe them.
I said, so lie down
and close your eyes.
They had their eyes closed.
I held my hands in different
directions, several feet
to several yards away from them.
They could tell me, it
was aimed toward the feet,
it was aimed towards
their shoulders.
I would see tiny little muscles
in their forehead or chin
ripple the way you drop
a pebble into water.
And it begins to ripple.
Involuntary muscles, muscles
we couldn't move by intention.
I would see their eyes
rapidly dart back and forth
when they'd open their eyes.
They would tell me
they were seeing colors
they had never before
seen, smelling flowers
they had never smelled before.
And they started
reporting healings.
Real healings.
They were getting up out
of wheelchairs, vision
and hearing returning,
children with cerebral palsy
and epilepsy--
-Oh, my goodness.
--were able to walk around
and play, not have seizures,
not need their medications,
their parents would call,
their doctors would call.
They'd say, what did you do?
I said, I didn't do anything,
and don't tell anyone.
Which went over about as--
Were you afraid of your gifts?
I mean, were you afraid of this?
No.
I may have been-- I don't
know what the word is.
I was in awe of
something large, but I
don't know that I was
quite ready yet for people
to start talking about it.
To wrap your head around
it and to tell people
you were doing this.
I was just trying
to discover it.
I didn't want to lose
credibility with doctors
and other professionals.
A thriving practice.
Right.
And soon people started
asking me to teach this.
And I said, teach it?
You've got to be nuts.
I'm standing there waving
my hands in the air,
looking like a fool.
So you go outside, wave
your hands in the air,
let me know what your
neighbors have to say about it.
See what they have to say.
Yes.
But more and more, my
patients would tell me,
I drove home after
my session with you.
I pulled up in
front of my house,
the automatic garage door
opened before I hit the button.
Or I walked inside, the lamp
or the TV turned off and on.
I felt sensations in my hands.
So the energy was
transferring to the patient
where they were
actually-- interesting.
Transmitting to them,
they held their hands
by someone in their family.
The father could walk
after the stroke.
Did you ever go back
and try to find the lady
that did the healing on you?
I was having
strange experiences.
The lamps were turning
on about twice a week.
There was a door open somewhere,
interior door of my home,
about twice a week.
If I slept at someone else's
home, it would happen there.
I would call her up and
say what was going on.
She'd give me new
age platitudes,
but she couldn't really
come up with answers.
But you see, the story
didn't yet become strange.
Did anything that she--
did she say that this was
an extraordinary
experience for her,
that this was unlike any
other healing she had done?
Not yet.
But then as I started to
work with the patients-- see,
I haven't told this
story for so long
that I'm trying to remember
it now so some of it
may be out of sequence.
You're doing a great job.
I'm involved.
Yes.
As I started doing the
healings with patients,
on more than one occasion,
my palm blistered.
Tiny little millimeter
sized blisters.
Not full sized ones,
millimeter sized blisters.
Instead of lasting--
what do blisters last,
a few days usually at least?
These were gone
inside a few hours.
On another occasion, my palm
bled, not like a stigmata
or anything like that.
This didn't scare you,
in any way frighten you,
make you think--
-No.
This was just a
little bit of blood,
like if you stick your
palm with a needle.
It excited me.
I knew I was standing in
the presence of something
so huge it couldn't
be interpreted.
I was more in a state of awe.
That's the closest
word I can tell you.
Now, awe can be
confused with fear.
But it was reverence.
It's sort of like, if you
listen to some interpretations
of the Bible, they talk
about being God fearing.
And that phrase never
made sense to me.
Why would a god want
us to be in fear?
And in looking back at
the original Hebrew,
it's a mistranslation.
The word that it was
taken from, [HEBREW],
on its most base
level could mean fear.
But on its highest level,
it means to be in awe.
It's someone who is in awe of
God, in awe of that presence.
And so then it got stranger.
Like this isn't strange enough.
No, no.
Because what happened was,
about four months into it,
I had a patient
come in to see me.
Now, this patient was a patient
of mine from a while back
but had been out of town
so wasn't coming in when
the healings were happening.
He showed up to
receive chiropractic.
I gave him his
chiropractic visits.
And then I told him, as I
always tell my patients,
just lie there with your
eyes closed for a moment.
But what I started doing was
sort of feeling the field,
shall we say, around them
while they were lying
there with their eyes closed.
And as I did that,
his head jerked back,
his eyes rolled to
the top of his head,
his mouth opened, his
tongue started to move,
his arms were sort
of gently swaying.
And air audibly
escaped his mouth.
You could see from
the way his tongue was
moving that he was speaking, but
you couldn't really hear words.
As a matter of fact, I brought
my ear close to listen.
And I did hear a
voice-- which I used
to say it's the voice of our
mothers we all carry with us.
I've changed my mind.
It's the voice of my mother
we all carry with us-- saying,
what are you doing?
Get your ear away from
that crazy person.
He might bite you.
So I can't explain
what it's like to be
struck funny and freaked
out at the same time.
But anyway, I realized
all the patients
were waiting to come in.
I had to stop.
So I sort of touched him
lightly and I let him stop.
And he didn't say
anything to me,
so I didn't say anything to him.
I mean, what am I going to say?
Hey, Fred, what's this?
You just start
speaking in tongue.
So he left.
But when he came back
on his next visit,
the same thing happened.
Now realize, he was a patient
of mine for a long time,
never did this before.
On his second visit,
the same thing
happened, but this time the air
condensed itself into a voice.
And the voice said, we are
here to tell you to continue
doing what you are doing.
What you are doing is
bringing light and information
onto the planet.
And if you heard this voice, you
knew to step back and listen.
What did you do?
Well, I was in
quite a bit of shock.
I finally-- my patients were
in my other rooms, again,
waiting for me.
So I touched him lightly.
And I said, Fred--
and this time,
he jumped up off of the table,
backed against the wall,
extended his arms out
blocking the wall phone,
because he was afraid I was
going to call a mental hospital
and have him taken away.
So he explained to
me that this voice
had come through him a few times
since he was a young child.
Only two people in his
life knew about it.
He didn't want anyone to know.
He felt it starting
on the last visit
but thought I didn't
notice anything.
And this time it got away.
And I thought, all right.
It's something unique to Fred.
That's all I attributed it to.
Two days later, three other
patients heads jerked,
eyes rolled, mouth open,
tongue moved, air came out.
I was not going to wait
for a double blind story
on their second--
and I know the show's
only so long, so I'm going to
skip the details around this.
It's a fascinating story.
Let's just say that
on their second visit,
they lost consciousness.
They spoke the same
two phrases Fred said.
We're here to tell
you to continue
doing what you're doing.
What you're doing is bringing
light and information
onto the planet.
Then two of them added
what you're doing
is reconnecting strands.
One of them said, what you're
doing is reconnecting strings.
Fred came back in
later that week
and said, what you're doing
is reconnecting strings.
A few days later, five
other patients, all in all,
there was a three-month period
of time where over 50, 5-0,
different patients
lost consciousness,
brought through six word
for word verbatim phrases.
And then it stopped
coming through everyone,
but it continued
coming through Fred.
Fred didn't like to talk
about this a whole lot,
but I could once in a
while coerce him to do it,
and I made recordings of those.
-Oh, you did?
-Yeah.
I thought enough--
I transcribed them.
Wait, I'll just finish this.
Fred and I lost contact and
regained contact over the years
off and on.
And we finally decided to
put it together into a book,
and Hay House is planning
on releasing the book
in February of this year.
Oh, it's still to be-- the
story is still to be put out.
Fascinating.
Well, that actually
is a great place
to take a quick
break, because I want
to learn about
what the energy is
and what you've
experienced since then
and how you've learned
that this is now
to be scientifically validated.
It's been an incredible journey.
So we'll be right back
to talk with Eric Pearl
about his journey,
his healing journey,
and then learn a little bit
more about Reconnective Healing.
We'll be right back.
This is Lisa Garr.
You're watching
"Gaiam Inspirations."
[MUSIC]
Welcome back to
"Gaiam Inspirations."
This is Lisa Garr.
And I'm here on the edge of my
seat basically with this story
that Eric Pearl is talking
about in terms of his journey,
his healing journey.
It's so great, really,
for you to be telling
the story for anyone who's
listening who might have had
these experiences and
really has never voiced them
and have been terrified or even
shoved down or forgotten them.
It's great for you to
be telling this story.
I haven't told this
story for years.
You wouldn't know that.
Basically because I would
tell a lot of the story
at the seminars for a while.
But as the book,
"The Reconnection,"
was so well read, so
many people would say,
well, we already know
a lot of that story.
So I would skip it and I
would go into other things.
It is well documented in
the book, "The Reconnection."
OK, so this energy started
coming through your hands.
And you experienced these people
speaking through them to you,
and you're getting
these messages.
And how did you eventually
determine what the energy is.
How did you learn what it does?
How did you hone the skills?
And what did the lady say?
I forgot about that.
What did the lady say?
The psychic, when
you said that that--
I would call her periodically.
And I would say, twice a week,
the lamps are turning on.
And there's a door
somewhere in my home
that I've closed--
never the same door,
but I always close these doors.
And another door would
open, and it happens
in other people's houses.
And I explained the
blistering and the bleeding.
And her new age
platitudes would get
further and further stretched.
She was having
trouble responding.
By the time I told her about
the blistering and the bleeding
and the voices coming
through, she went,
I don't know what
to say about that.
Let me introduce you to the
woman who taught me this work.
And we can explain it there.
So I had a conversation with
her and with the other woman
and some other things.
And eventually, what it
pretty much came down to is
that you could say that
the woman who originated
the work that this woman on the
beach did for me created a key.
Let's just use an
analogy of a key.
She created a key.
Everyone she taught
how to do the work,
she taught them to do
it exactly the same,
so she gave them all
duplicates of this key.
She said, keep trying locks.
Keep trying doors.
Eventually this
will unlock a lock.
It'll open a door.
I was the door that the key fit.
It seems that nobody
had had this response
before or after me.
It was just me.
I was the door
that this key fit.
I'm not the gift, and we
need to bear that in mind.
I'm the door.
If Oprah Winfrey walks
in this door right here,
no one's going to run
over to the door and go,
wow, what a great door.
It's the gift.
As a matter of fact, the
woman who did this work to me
came back to me to
receive the gift.
In other words, she had the
key that unlocked the door
through which the gift came.
But she came to
receive the gift.
So would you say
that this key unlocks
various dimensions of energy,
of portals, would you say?
Absolutely.
It takes us from a
four-dimensional existence
into a multi-dimensional
existence.
Now, some people
would like to think
of the multi-dimensional
existence
as the next level of
existence, next meaning
going from four to five.
But it's really a misnomer
to call it fifth dimensional,
because once you step
beyond four dimensions,
you're no longer linear,
so it cannot be five.
Once you hear someone talking
about sixth-dimensional or
26th-dimensional healing
or something like that,
the one thing you
can be assured of
is that they have no idea
what they're talking about.
Because once you step
into this space--
Time and space disappears.
Time is simultaneous.
Right, it disappears.
So if you're looking at this
from a limited four-dimensional
existence, then your
natural question
is, oh, I wonder
what might come next
after Reconnective Healing.
But if you step into the
multi-dimensional comprehension
of this, you realize that
that question is sort
of inappropriate or inaccurate.
There isn't something
that comes next.
-It's endless.
-Its endless.
Everything becomes
a simultaneous,
continuous expansion.
And it's teaching us how to
expand who and what we are.
So I can understand
that you would go on
to continue to heal
people and have them
have incredible experiences.
But sometimes the Western
mind needs to scientifically
validate what's happening here.
And that has been done on you.
And I appreciate the fact
that it has been done on you,
because it helps people
understand or maybe
look at this from a
linear perspective,
because that's what we do.
And although we know and
experience and feel and heel,
the linear mind sometimes wants
to grasp what this healing is.
And I am wide open,
and always have been,
to any legitimate
researchers who
want to do study on this work.
And there has been.
And there has been a lot
from around the world.
Now, the one thing
I'll say to you
is the one thing I say
to anyone, including
the researchers who don't
really like me saying this,
but I can't help it, because
this is my reality on this.
I don't believe that the
most important thing about
the research is what they find.
I believe the most important
thing about the research
is the fact that the
research is being done.
It's the very fact that
the research is being done
that allows a lot of the general
public to remove their blinders
and say, well, if science
is looking at this,
then I will look at it.
Mm-hmm.
Absolutely, absolutely.
And that's why-- for
instance, on the book cover,
it says Dr. Eric Pearl.
Do you think for one
moment being a doctor
has anything to do with this?
Nothing whatsoever.
I even said to Hay House,
there's no reason for "Doctor"
to be on the cover,
but you know,
contractually they get to put
on the cover what they want.
And I do realize that
there is a reason that it's
all right for "Doctor"
to be on a cover,
because it allows
people to pick up a book
that otherwise they
might have stepped over.
But for some
reason, we attribute
that if a doctor is involved
in it, it must be more.
Well, we also get
the opportunity
to look at some of the
scientific research that's been
done by Konstantin Korotkov.
I believe he did some of the--
He's one of the
many researchers.
As a matter of fact,
Dr. Korotkov is a very,
very significant researcher.
He's at the main university
in Saint Petersburg, Russia.
He works with the government.
He works with the Olympic teams.
One of the more recent studies
that we did with Dr. Korotkov
was-- now, I hope I can
tell this accurately.
If I'm a little
off, I apologize.
We have some slides
of it as well.
Oh, sure.
So let's take a
look at one of them.
And I'll explain
what's happening.
You want me to explain it
while the slides are on?
Yeah.
If I recognize it.
What acts really was done?
And this is your hand?
No, this is not my hand.
And this is important
to understand,
that it's not my hand.
Because you see, the gift of
this work is not about me.
The gift of this work is
that each and every one of us
can learn to do this.
So when we do research
studies, yes, I
like to be involved in it.
But I like to bring other
people who have learned
the work to be involved in it.
So this is one of the ways
that they measure the energy.
This is called Laser-Doppler
Profusion Imager.
It evaluates blood flow
and blood flow changes.
There's also
Kirlian photography,
and Dr. Korotkov is
known for what I believe
is called the EPC unit, which
is the highest level in science
today, the evolution
of Kirlian photography,
which is virtually the main
accepted measurement that's
in pretty much every
laboratory around the world
studying this work,
and his EBC work.
What we did in this
most recent study,
about a year ago, was we
took 60-- I believe it was
60-- Russian Olympic athletes.
And I think I worked
with 20 of them.
20 of them was a control
group that received nothing,
and 20 of them was
a control group
that received energy
healing, because Reconnective
Healing is not energy healing.
It's a way to evolve
beyond energy healing,
access the energy
and move beyond it.
He measured all three
groups 10 days later.
The reason he waited 10
days to do the evaluation
was because he
wanted to make sure
that any changes
were not transient,
but that they were
lasting changes.
Only the group with
Reconnective Healing
received 100% changes and
improvements in their red blood
cells, their white blood cells,
their blood humeral levels,
their emotional
states-- and get this,
he told me their DNA changes.
This was the fifth study.
I believe there's a sixth
international study being
planned that shows that
Reconnective Healing so far is
the only thing that's been
discovered, I believe,
that alters or affects the DNA,
both plant DNA and human DNA.
They did plant
evaluations, where
they cut leaves off of plants.
If you cut the leaf
off, the leaf by itself
would live seven to 10 days.
They did some studies of
prayer and intention and energy
healing, were able to
get the leaves to live
quite noticeably longer.
But with Reconnective
Healing, they
were able to get the leaves to
live from between 70 to 90 days
without its attached
life source.
Oh, wow.
Totally unheard of.
Why do you call
it reconnective?
What are we reconnecting to?
Remember, I told you--
well, it starts this way.
I didn't want to give it a name.
I did not want to
give it a name,
because I feel that
when we name something,
we say, this is what
it is, and everything
else is what it isn't.
And if there are two things
I knew we didn't know-- A,
we didn't know what it
was, and we definitely
didn't know what it wasn't.
So I wasn't going
to give it a name.
And for some reason, human
nature couldn't stand that.
So in the Northeast, they were
calling it Eric Pearl Healing.
In the Southeast, it was
Pearl High Frequency Healing.
Somewhere else-- it
always had my name,
and it always had
something that had
to be high or big or better--
you know, the linear phrasing.
And so finally,
I'm thinking, I've
got to come up with a name.
I've got to come up with a name.
And I'm coming up with all these
interesting words and things,
and creating acronyms.
But the funny thing
about an acronym
is it means nothing
to anyone until you
know what the acronym means.
It doesn't read something.
I'm thinking, I'm
thinking, and I said, I
have another seminar coming up.
I can't leave people calling
this all different things.
The third and fourth
phrases said, what you're
doing is reconnecting strings.
What you're doing is
reconnecting strings.
And I thought,
temporarily, temporarily,
I'll call it reconnection.
The Reconnection, or
Reconnective Healing.
Because we can reconnect
with our original
fullness the spirit
that we experience in
between lifetimes.
And we can access that
here on the planet here.
But we are reconnecting with
something that is continuously
expanding and evolving so it
has no limitation of saying,
this is what it is and
this is what it isn't.
And the moment that I called
it that name, people started
coming out of the woodwork
from everywhere, saying,
I knew I had to come.
And I realized the name was
right there in front of my eyes
the whole time.
So you've said
to me in the past
that it's something that
is new in this world.
This is an energy, a frequency,
that's new in this world.
What do you mean by that?
Many of the researchers
in the beginning
were the first to say
to me, we think this is
here for the very first time.
And I said, that's a
rather bold statement.
How can you make a
statement such as that?
Now, let me back up.
Before they were saying that,
what my experience had been was
I was thinking, well,
this has got to be
coming through lots of people.
So I went looking--
healers who were famous,
healers who were not so famous,
healers started contacting me
telling me they were sent
to me in their medications,
et cetera.
And I met a lot of people who
said that they were healers.
And some of them
were, and some of them
were just as average a
healer as anyone else.
But none of them, not one of
them, had this coming through.
And yet instantly-- and
interestingly enough,
the moment you interact
with this, with Reconnective
Healing, you do care.
So it was like, people, my
patients, who were coming out
of my office, whether they came
in with no background in energy
healing, a little
background, or whether they
were grandmaster teachers, every
one of them rose to this level.
Wow.
Interesting.
So, move that to one
aspect, and then here
are these healers, these
researchers, saying,
we think it's here on the
planet for the very first time.
And I said, how can you make
such a statement like that?
Right.
And they said, well, the
reason that we suspect
that is because everything
that they've ever discovered
in looking at healing,
from energy healing,
has been contained in this.
Something here is contained
in reiki, something here in qi
gong, something here in
alpha beta delta gamma,
or whatever we call
the techniques,
already contained in this.
And yet yours seems
to contain, what
comes through you and
the people you've taught,
everything that's
in here and more
than we've ever seen before.
I said, yeah, but
still, how can you
say you think it's here on
the planet for the first time?
And they said, well, we'll
just have to understand
two basic concepts.
A, we are
four-dimensional beings.
We are height, width,
depth, and time.
When we went to school, we were
told we were three-dimensional,
but Einstein had told
us since the '50s we're
four-dimensional,
and in the year 2000,
science formally accepted it.
So our four-dimensional
existence in quantum physics
is often illustrated
as a bubbles.
So imagine, here's
this little bubble.
The wall or the
cell of the bubble
is height, width,
depth, and time.
Everything in the
interior is energy.
Everything here has been energy.
Everything outside is the rest
of this huge multi-dimensional
endless universe.
So here's our
bubble of existence.
And the energy healing
we've accessed here
has been different
subsets of the energy--
reiki, qi gong, whatever we
want to call these things.
But second understanding,
time is moving faster.
Time has been moving
faster, but it's
dramatically moving faster.
The harmonic convergence in
1987, the harmonic concordance
in 2002, stepping into 2012.
Time isn't moving faster
linearly from point A
to point B. It's moving faster
in all directions at once,
which means it's
expanding, which means
our bubble of existence is
opening up and expanding
further out into the universe.
It's accessing more of
what's always been here
outside of our time and energy.
You put that very
clearly as to what
many people are experiencing.
Yes, yes.
Right.
So it's always existed
outside of here,
outside of the bubble of time.
So it's in our bubble
now for the first time.
In other words, it's timeless.
It's been timeless.
And now that it's
here, it's new.
It's not old.
Now, this concept can
tend to royally piss
off a lot of the
new age community,
because they want
everything to be old.
So they can say things
such as, I remember this
from my past lifetime when I
was Cleopatra for the 33rd time
in Atlantis Immemoria, because
I was the only Cleopatra who
could bilocate between the two.
And you know, guess
what-- sometimes
something was just new.
And isn't that
wonderful, because we
are also here for what's now.
-Right.
And I want to go
back to the slides,
because I wanted people to
understand, what the energy is.
This next slide that we're
taking a look at here
shows what the hands looked
like before the healing and then
during the energy.
If you could explain
just quickly about this.
Well, you can see the
significant increase
in the blood flow
during the healing.
That's what this particular
way of photography, that's
what this handles.
EPC or Kirlian photography
shows energetic fields,
which shows the same
increase during the healings.
But what's really interesting
is that this healing
comes about after you've
interacted with it.
And you do have to
interact with it.
It's something that
becomes activated
once you interact with it.
Is it several times,
over several times?
No, not necessarily.
Fairly instantaneously.
But it comes about once you
place your attention on it.
Now, this became a little
problematic for the testing,
because I remember even at
Jackson Memorial Hospital, one
of the more straight
laced places,
the University of
Miami, when they
did the Kirlian photography,
before the EPC had come about,
I believe, or was well
known, and they had me place
my fingers on a plate--
and you can see this
somewhere on the website, I
believe, this picture's up.
Place your fingers on the
plate, and they measured it.
Now, turn the healing on
was, I think, their phrase.
Well, you don't turn it on.
You become aware of it.
So here we are with the healing.
So they measured
with the healing.
And they said, now turn it off.
Now, how do you turn it off?
What they're saying is,
don't think about it.
Well, how do you
not think about it?
Don't think about red.
So what happens is,
you somehow distract
yourself as best as possible.
But it's always on a little
bit once you've accessed it.
And then once you place your
attention on it, there's more.
So you see that during
the feeling the energy,
there's a certain
level of blood flow.
After feeling it, there's
still extended blood flow.
So it exists in a
non-linear fashion.
It's before, during, and after.
I believe there are two
of these slides, right.
Blood flow was usually--
OK, in this slide,
it says blood flow
was usually still high
when the healer tried
to stop feeling energy,
because you can't stop.
It's as if I just sprayed some
perfume onto you and I say,
all right, smell the perfume.
Good.
OK, now I want to measure you.
Stop smelling the perfume.
Well, how the hell
do you do that?
Exactly.
But that makes sense.
Science is attempting to
validate something that they
needed to put into
a linear form,
and this is a non-linear, more
of a quantum type of concept.
We confuse a lot of
things with saying, well,
it must be real because
science discovered it.
And we forget that if
things weren't real
before science discovered
it, then science
would have nothing to discover.
But still, it's very important
for-- we do need to see this.
Of course it is very important.
So, of course, the energy
happens before, it happens
during, it happens after.
But yet you said your
hands tend to get cold.
Could we actually--
Sometimes they're cold,
and sometimes they're warm.
You want to feel it?
Sure.
-Yes, I do.
-I'll slide forward.
Hold one hand up like that
with your fingers open.
Perfect.
Now, I come in, and my whole
arm sort of begins to float.
If I push it down, it just
wants to float back up again.
And I watch your fingertips.
And I don't know if the
camera can pick it up,
but you have tiny
little jerks going
on in your ring finder-- see
it, in your middle finger now?
Good.
Those are involuntary.
-Involuntary movements.
-Right, I see it.
So what I tend to
do now is I stretch,
or I pull the sensation.
-Wow.
It become stronger, doesn't it?
It feels like you have
strings attached to my fingers.
Mm-hmm.
Now, this is not energy healing.
What we know about
energy is that it
gets weaker with distance.
But you see this,
it becomes stronger.
I've never seen my fingers
twitch like that before.
Uh-huh.
See that movement
that just happened?
I probably blocked
it from the camera.
Maybe if I play
with it this way.
Wow, interesting.
We'll see if that
changes anything.
Yeah, there it goes.
See how it just--
and now it just
pulled that finger backwards.
Now, when I do this, you either
get a sensation or you don't.
So you tell me.
I can't bend that finger.
-You can't bend the finger.
-No.
Uh-huh.
Isn't that cool?
That is interesting.
Yeah.
Now, close your
eyes for a moment.
Keep your eyes closed.
Are your eyes still,
or are they moving?
-Moving.
-Uh-huh.
Now, stop them from moving.
Wow.
Go ahead, stop them.
Now, they're just
darting, darting.
-Can't stop them, can you?
-No.
Uh-uh.
-Isn't that weird?
Open your eyes.
-That is very interesting.
Look how far away I am.
What could I possibly
be doing out here
that's affecting your eyes.
We don't know.
But science is--
I'm trying to--
But what really is science?
Something that is
consistently reproducible
under the same conditions.
Your hands are so cold.
They get cold sometimes
when I do this.
Wow.
-But when--
-They're blue.
You felt it was
their temperature?
Look at the color
of your hands.
They're almost blue.
Uh-huh.
Sometimes it gets
cold when I do this.
Sometimes I get warm
when this happens,
and it doesn't mean
that you're feeling
the same coolness or warmth.
You might be feeling warmth
even though I'm feeling
a coolness, or vice versa.
-Interesting.
So I did start to tell you
something, but it left my mind.
Well, no.
That was really interesting,
because your fingers
literally changed color.
So this is what's
shown in the slides
that we were looking
at earlier, is
that the color and the
temperature of your hands,
and the person's hands
who was in the slide--
Now, you can learn to begin
to access this on a basic level
on your own from the book.
There's a basic
how-to in the book
that teaches you how to do it.
It does not teach you how
to become a Reconnective
Healing practitioner.
You can't read the book and
say, I'm a Reconnective Healing
practitioner any more
than you can read a book
on hairstyling or dentistry.
I mean, if you read a book
on hairstyling and dentistry,
you'll probably take better care
of your hair and your teeth,
but you can't hang a shingle
out and say that you're
a dentist or a hairstylist.
It's the same with this book.
It will teach you
how to access it
initially for your own family,
yourself, your immediate work.
But to learn how to do
this, I'm on the road
approximately 42 weeks
a year around the world
teaching seminars.
And you have this much energy.
We actually have a video of what
the seminars are, a little bit
of what people experience
when they're experiencing
the Reconnective Healing.
Let's take a look at that.
I'm not sure what you
have, but let's look.
Yeah, let's take a look at it.
So these are the involuntary
physical registers or responses
that people have when you
experience the Reconnective
Healing frequencies.
You see the involuntary movement
of the mouth and the nose,
for example.
LISA GARR: That's what
was happening to my hand.
ERIC PEARL: Here you can
see involuntary movement
in the breathing and also
movement around the mouth
and the swallowing increases.
This tends to happen
with virtually everyone
who's there at the seminars.
LISA GARR: Right.
And then when people
experience this,
do they have pain
that's disappeared?
Is that commonly what you hear?
ERIC PEARL: Yeah.
Now, remember, the seminars are
not-- here's another example
of involuntary registers.
The head tends to
rock and respond.
And the eyes move.
Remember, people are not
coming to the seminars
for their own personal healing.
They're coming to the seminars
to learn how to do the healing.
It's like if you're
going to medical school,
you're not going
to medical school
and confusing it with
a visit to your doctor.
You're going to
medical school to learn
how to become a doctor.
So that's part of what happens.
What occurs at the
seminars is it's
usually held on a Friday night,
all day Saturday, and all day
Sunday.
Friday night is a
three-hour presentation.
We talk about the
history of the work.
See the involuntary movement
of the fingers and the hands?
OK, those are some of
the secondary registers.
LISA GARR: So now,
these are other people
that are doing these healings.
ERIC PEARL: These are
just people who have
attended the seminars, right.
And the people who
are working on them
are seminar attendees,
who've learned how to do it.
So again, I'll explain
how that works.
On a Friday night, generally I
give a three-hour presentation.
We talk about the history
of the work, the theory
of the work, the philosophy.
We bring up some
volunteers in the audience,
give live demonstrations
of the healing,
so you can see
the reality of it.
And we give everyone
an opportunity
to feel this in your hand, sort
of like I just did with you.
Saturday and Sunday is
very different, though.
It's a real, real
working seminar.
So I tell everyone-- and
I mean it-- don't come.
And I mean it-- don't come
if you think we're all going
to sit around and hold hands and
ohm and sing, kumbaya, my lord.
It won't happen that way.
We demonstrate a level of the
healing clearly from the stage,
then we all go to massage
tables in groups of two or four,
give or take.
I walk around to each
of the tables myself.
So does our team of
teaching assistants.
We help teach you how to
feel this, how to find it.
You start to see the
person on the table
go into involuntary
physical registers,
like we just saw on the tape.
Then we teach you how
to feel something else,
and you see their registers
change to something else,
and you begin to recognize
your clear distinct interaction
with escorting them
into a healing place.
And by the end of that one
weekend-- one weekend, not six
months or a year, one
weekend-- I can pretty much
make you two promises.
A, you will be
able to do anything
and everything in the way
of healing that I can do.
And B, you will be able to
do anything and everything
in the way of healing that
any human being anywhere
on this planet can do, whether
they were raised by monks
in a cave and a mountaintop in
Tibet and fed grains of seed,
each one blessed by its
own individual Lama.
It doesn't matter the story.
You know what matters
today is our willingness
to transcend the story.
We are given a gift of
being able to demystify
the healing process.
The challenge is whether or
not we're willing to allow
it to be demystified.
We're given a gift today of
transcending the complications,
the fear-based rituals, and
control-based techniques
of healing.
And the challenge
is whether or not
we're willing to
transcend the techniques
to achieve greater healings.
And the question then
becomes, if we're not
willing to transcend the
techniques to access more,
we need to ask ourselves why.
If we're not willing to allow
the healing process to become
clearer and demystified,
transparent for everyone,
we need to ask ourselves why.
And if we're not willing
to ask ourselves why,
then we need to ask ourselves
why we're not willing to ask
ourselves why, because it's
within that question that
lies the gift to our mastery.
It's very, very
empowering, your message is.
And it takes the guru
out of the picture
and puts the healing into
our own responsibility.
-Our own hands.
-Yeah.
Our own hands, basically.
And so, thank you so much.
Your story, it was
fascinating and engaging.
The scientific evidence
is also equally intriguing
to see the temperature changes.
And the fact that you can teach
other people to do this really
connects it full circle for me.
So thank you so much.
You are amazing--
-It's my pleasure.
Absolutely.
- --to be here with me.
And if you want to watch
a replay of my interview
with Eric Pearl or share
it with your friends,
go to gaiamtv.com
for more thought
provoking interviews
and inspirational
films and so much more.
Sign up for a free
trial at gaiamtv.com.
And until next time, I
invite you to stay inspired.